# ECMAScript 6: One major update

All the updates since the beginning of ECMAScript were quite minor, and the functionality of the language was merly the same. It wasn't until 2015 that some game changing updates were introduce to the language. ECMAScript6 is today the JavaScript version that we are used to handle. 

---
## Scope: `let` and `const`
Recall that whenever we declare a variable in JavaScript, we need some reserved keywords. The OG way to do this was using `var`, but ES6 introduced two others: `let` and `const`.

Both `var` and `let` allow for re-initialization of variable, whereas `const` does not. Every variable declared with `const` *cannot change its initialization*.

But there is more about these keywords, and has to do with the scope of the variables. Lets consider the following function: 

```
const fruits = () => {
    if(true){
        var fruit1 = "Apple";
        let fruit2 = "Lemon";
        const fruit3 = "Cherry";
    }

    console.log(fruit1);
    console.log(fruit2);
    console.log(fruit3);
}
```

This leads to another difference among the keywords. Variables declared with `var` have a **function scope**, whereas `let` and `const` variables are only **accessible in their corresponding blocks**. Notice that `fruit2` and `fruit3` are declared with these last two, hence they can only be accesed from within if the if statement, whereas `fruit1` is accesible throughout the whole `fruits` function. 

The last major difference is that `let` variables **cannot be declared**, whereas `var` allows for this. 

---

## Arrow functions
This is a way to declare functions as variables themselves. It provides for a cleaner and consistent syntax

```
const square = (n) => {
	return n * n;
};
```
```
const cube = (n) => n * n * n;

```
---

## Template literals
The allow for string concatenation in a more flexible way

```
let hello = "Hello";
let world = "world";


// OG 
let phrase = hello + " " + world;

// ES6
let sentence = `${hello} ${world}`

```

Notice that template literals are another way to declare formatted strings. This is an awesome functionality, and very few languages can achieve this in such an easy way, like Python for example. Template literals also allow for *multiline strings*, rather than having to use `\n` . 

---

## Default parameters
In ES6 JavaScript allows for default parameters in a friendlier way

```
//OG
function newUSer(name, age, country) {
	var name = name || "default-name";
	var age = age || "default-age";
	var country = country || "default-country";
	console.log(name, age, country);
}

newUSer();
newUSer("Brandon", "Eich", "US");

```
```
//ES6
const userIn = (
	name = "default-name",
	age = "default-age",
	country = "default-country"
) => {
	console.log(name, age, country);
};

userIn();
userIn("Bjarne", "Strostroup", "DE");

```

---

## Destructuring assignment
It is not a secret that index notation is confusing, especially for early learners of programming, it makes no sense for us to start counting from 0 because it does not rigurously follow the definition of a natural number. In ES6 we can destruct an array using variables directly, instead of the index notation. 

```
// OG
var names = ["Brandon","Ryan"];
console.log(names[0],names[1]);
```

```
// ES6
let fruits = ["Apple", "Lemon"];
let [a, b] = fruits;
console.log(a, fruits[1]);
```
This syntax also allows for using index notation, so it is more flexible and it alsow works for objects

```
let user = { username: "brandon123", age: 40 };
let { username, age } = user;
console.log(username,age);
```
---

## Spread operators
These are another type of destructuration. With them we can unpack the whole informationof an array or object

```
let person = { name: "Brandon", age: 40 };
let country = "US";

let data = { ...person, country };
console.log(data)
```

Here we are adding the key `country` with the value of `US` to the object `person`. Notice that with `...` we are destructuring all the information stored in `person`. Spread operators are amazing to work with when dealing with very large objects. 

This also works with the parameters of a function, in a similar way as the `*args` parameter in Python

```
const sum = (n, ...values) => {
	console.log(values);
	console.log(n + values[0]);
}
```

By using `...values` we are not specifying exactly how many arguments we want, so all of them will be stored in the `values` array and consol logged in the terminal. 

---

## Object literals
This is an easy way to convert the parameters of a function into an object

```
function newUSer(user, age, country) {
	return {
		user,
		age,
		country
	};
}
```

---

## Promises: Asynchronous programming

This is a hard topic to understand if one does not how asynchronous programming works, but it is still very important in the language. 

JavaScript is a single threaded language. This means that is can only execute code in a sequential manner, one line of code at a time, hence it cannot perform various tasks simultaneously.

The reason for this is because it was originally developed to work in browsers, where resources such as CPU time and memory are expected to be limited. When using single thread execution, JavaScript makes sure that the browser remains as responsive as it can to user interactions. 

But even though it is single threaded, it can use **asynchronous programming techniques**, such as *callbacks*, *promises*, *async/await*, in order to handle long running tasks in a non-blockin manner. This allows the code to continue executing while those long-running tasks are being performed in the background, hence improving the responsiveness of the application.

As an example, let's consider the following code

```
const data = [
	{
		id: 1,
		title: "Iron Man",
		year: 2008,
	},
	{
		id: 2,
		title: "Spiderman Homecoming",
		year: 2017,
	},
	{
		id: 3,
		title: "Avengers : Endgame",
		year: 2019,
	},
];

const dataGetter = (d) => {
	return d;
};

console.log(dataGetter(data));

```

This script declares and initializes an object, and then there is a function that returns it and finally it is being printed in the console. All of this process is being *synchronic* because the whole code block is being executed as a whole, meaning that the interpreted is going line during runtime. 

But consider a more realistic situation. Say that these data that we are trying to retrieve comes from a database. In a more technical way we say that users are making *resquest* from the client side (frontend), and there is an API in charge of receving all of them, so they can be sent to a backend service.

Here is where the backend makes queries to the database in order to retrieve data that corresponds to the user requests. When this happens, then the data is given back to the API, and then displayed to the user in the frontend. 

All of what has been said is just the standard process that is followed in a website. If an user is mkaing a lot of requests at the same time, the single threaded nature of JavaScript will not allow to run all of the tasks inmediately, especially if we are talking about tasks queues like reports, backups or image processing. Here is where asynchronous programming plays a huge role and becomes an essential skill in a web developer. 

We can emulate this data acquisition in an asynchronous manner using a function named `setTimeOut()`, which is by nature, an asynchronous function.

```
const data = [
	{
		id: 1,
		title: "Iron Man",
		year: 2008,
	},
	{
		id: 2,
		title: "Spiderman Homecoming",
		year: 2017,
	},
	{
		id: 3,
		title: "Avengers : Endgame",
		year: 2019,
	},
];

const dataGetter = (d) => {
	setTimeout(() => {
		return d;
	}, 1500);
};

console.log(dataGetter(data));


	
```

The output will be `undefined` because the `dataGetter()` function is being emulated as if it was asynchronous, by using `setTimeOut()` , which will execute `dataGetter()` after 1500 miliseconds. 

The `dataGetter()` function is not returning any value inmediately. It will only return the `d` argument after the specified delay of 1500 miliseconds, so when the `console.log(dataGetter(data))` is executed, it logs the value returned by `dataGetter()`, which is undefined at that moment because the function has not yet returned any value. 

To understand better what is going on, here is another code in which the exact same issue is happenning

```
const dataGetter = (d) => {
	return;
};

console.log(dataGetter(data));
```

Notice that `dataGetter()` has an argument `d` , but it's not returning anything, so when it is logged we will see `undefined` in the console. 

ECMAScript6 introduces a way to tackle this problem, which is using **promises**. 

```
const dataGetter = (d) => {
	return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
		setTimeout(() => {
			resolve(d);
		});
	}, 1500);
};
```
Up until this point, the output will be an object of type `Promise` . If we want to see the execution of `dataGetter()` we have to use the `then()` function, which is used to handle the result of a promise after it has been resolved. 

We know the promise has been resolved so far, because the output is the `Promise` object and not an error. In that case, the `reject` keywords is in charge to execute something else (similar as error handling with try and catch). 

```
const data = [
	{
		id: 1,
		title: "Iron Man",
		year: 2008,
	},
	{
		id: 2,
		title: "Spiderman Homecoming",
		year: 2017,
	},
	{
		id: 3,
		title: "Avengers : Endgame",
		year: 2019,
	},
];

const dataGetter = (d) => {
	return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
		setTimeout(() => {
			resolve(d);
		});
	}, 1500);
};

dataGetter().then((df) => console.log(data));



```

The logic here is the following: 

1. `dataGetter()` can be executed because there were no errors during the promise handling. Otherwise we would have seen them in the output

2. Using `.then()`, the function `dataGetter()` is being executed. Since it resolved the `d` parameter that had inside, it can executen the `.then()` function, which is logging the output of `data`. 

---

## Classes
With ES6, JavaScript became an object oriented programming language. To understand how classes work it is required to have at least an insight an brief understanding about OOP. 

A class can be thought as a blueprint to generate variables of a new type. For example, we can declare a class named `Animal` ,  and create new variables of type animals with it, like dogs, cats, lizards, and so on. All of the variables of type `Animal` we can create are known as **instances.**

```
class Animal {
	constructor(name, type) {
		(this.name = name), (this.type = type);
	}
}
```

There is a lot to cover about OOP, it is one of the major topics in programming and it deserves its own course. What we are doing here is creating a class `Animal` ,  and using a constructor we are defining the attributes `name` and `type` for any of the instances that are created. 

The `this` keyword is used to specify the instance itself that is being created, so the first argument of the constructor `name` will be automatically assign to the `name` attribute of the instance of class `Animal` , and the same will happen with `type` . 


```
const animal1 = new Animal("Rocky", "Dog");
console.log(animal1);
```

Here we created a new variable named `animal1` that is of type `Animal` , notice that the constructor function requieres that any instance that is created must have as an input two arguments, which will be assigned to the corresponding attributes of the instance. 

---


## Modules

In ES6 we can separate files from modules, that are blocks of code that execute a particular set of methods, classes, variable declaration and initialization, and anything that you can do in a normal script. 

The difference here is that modules are a way to recycle code, just like functions, but modules are a lot more complex, and unlike functions, they cannot be separated from file to file. 

To create a module we first create a normal `.js` file. Here all the functions, classes, variables, everything is declared and initialized and at the end of the script we type `export default` and then whatever we want to export

```
const greet = (message) => {
	return `Message is: ${message}`;
};

export default greet;
```
Here the function `greet` is being exported, and now this script can be used as a module. However there is one last thing that needs to be done. 

When we create a node project, it comes with a `package.json` that stores some basic information. If we want module manipulation enabled in our project, we must specify it in that file by putting "type" : "module". After this we can import the module in another script as follows

```
import greet from "./name-of-the-module.js";
```
---

## Generators
There were iteration logics before ES6, but generators are a more personalized tool that does not require very exhaustive code lines

Generators are functions, and they can be paused and resumed during execution. It is defined with `function*` as a normal function declaration, and every item we want to iterate uses the keyword `yield` . 

```
const generator = function* (){
    yield 1;
    yield 2;
    yield 3;
    yield 4;
    yield 5;
}

let newGenerator = generator();
```

This generator named `generator`, will create a sequence of numbers from 1 to 5.  

Each time we call `.next()` , the generator resumes execution and returns an object with two properties: `values` and `done` . 
The `value` property contains the yielded value and `done` is set to `true` if the generator has finished generaring values, so it will be returning `false` as long as it keeps trasversing the entire generator, once it finished, it is able to return `true` . 

Generators are veru useful when handling sequences that are too large to fit into memory at once, or for generating values in response to user input. They can also be used asynchronously. 

---

## Sets
Sets are unordered collections of data that do not allow for duplicates. To define a set in JavaScript we use the following syntax

```
const set = new Set();
```

Sets are mutable, therefore we can add and delet values, as well as retrieve indexes 

- `set.add(value)`
- `set.delete(value)`
- `set.has(value)`
- `set.clear()`
- `set.size()`

---




 





