# ECMAScript 8

---

## Object entries
For an object `obj` we can retrieve its keys, values, and all the entries as array type variables

- `Object.entries(obj)`
- `Object.keys(obj)`
- `Object.values(obj)`

---

## String padding
For a string `str`, the method `str.padStart(n,"char")` will create a new string with `n` number of characters, repeated in a sequence given by `"char"`.

For example if `str = "platypus"` then by doing `platypus.padStart(10,"_")` the output will be `"_/platypus"` , because the total string has a length of 10, and the sequence is given by the string `"_/"`

There is also the method `padEnd()` which does the same thing, but appends the substring sequence at the end. 

---


## Trailing commas
Trailing commas allow to define a fixed length array, but with empty spaces

```
const l = [1,2,3,,,,7];
```

if we do `l.length` the output will be 7, because there are four elements plus another three empty values. 

---

## Asynchronous functions
This is the most important update in this release, the introduction of asynchronous functions with the keywords `async` and `await`


Let us recap the same example code we were working with in the ES6 promises


```
const data = [
	{
		id: 1,
		title: "Iron Man",
		year: 2008,
	},
	{
		id: 2,
		title: "Spiderman Homecoming",
		year: 2017,
	},
	{
		id: 3,
		title: "Avengers : Endgame",
		year: 2019,
	},
];

```

```
const dataGetter = (d) => {

    setTimeout(() => {
        return d

    },1000)

}

console.log(dataGetter(data));
```

Recall that the output is undefined due to the asynchronous behavior of the function `dataGetter()` , which is returning a null value and hence an `undefined` when logged in the console. The way we solve this problem was by returning a promise object that resolves after 1500 miliseconds.

```
const dataGetter = (d) => {
	return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
		setTimeout(() => {
			resolve(d);
		}, 1500);
	});
};

dataGetter().then((df) => console.log(data));
```

This syntax is very hard to understand at first. The `await` keywords tries to provide a better and cleaner syntax for the `.then()` and `.catch()` functions when using promises. But whenever we use `await` it means that our function must be asynchronous, so we also need to cast it with the `async` keyword

```
const dataGetter = (d) => {
	return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
		setTimeout(() => {
			resolve(d);
		}, 1500);
	});
};


const dataAsync = async (d) => {
	const data1 = await dataGetter(d);
	console.log(data1);
};

dataAsync(data);

```

Here a new function called `dataAsync` is created. Notice that in order to make in asynchronous we use the keyword `async` and define it as a normal arrow function. Is receiving a single parameter and inside it we are declaring a variable and initializing it to the `dataGetter()` function evaluated with the parameter of `dataAsync` as an argument. Finally we print that variable in the console. 

The use of the keyword `await` is to wait for the promise that is returned by `dataGetter()` to resolve, before continuing execution of the `dataAsync` function. 


