# ECMAScript 9

---
## Regular expressions
They are sort of search patterns an character manipulation. Regular expressions are extremely powerful because they allow for word searching in a clever manner. 

We define a regular expression in JavaScript by using the symbol `/`

```
const regex = /(\d{4})-(\d{2})-(\d{2})/;
const matcher = regex.exec("2022-01-02");
console.table(matcher);
```

By using the `console.table()` we display in the terminal a table with all the features of the regular expression. 

----

## Objects: Rest operator
Recall that *spread operators* represented by three dots `...` is used to spread the elements of an iterable object, such as arrays and objects. 

On the other hand, the **rest operator** (which is also represented using three dots `...`) is used to *gather any number of arguments into an iterable* . It is most commonly used in function definitions to capture an arbitrary number of arguments. 

```
const obj = {
	name: "Brandon",
	lastName: "Eich",
	age: 40,
	country: "US",
};

const { name, lastName, ...val } = obj;
```

If we logged `name` we will have as an output `Brandon`, because that is the value associated to that keyword. But if we logged `val` we will receive all of the others key-value attributes as an object. 

The rest operator is used for functions as well

```
const myFunction = (a, b, ...rest) => {
	console.log(a);
	console.log(b);
	console.log(rest);
};

```

By invoking for example `myFunction(1,2,3,4,5)` we will see three lines of code. In the first one there is a `1`, in the second there is a `2` but in the third one we will see `3,4,5`

---

## Promises: `finally`
The method `finally()` when using promises consists in executing code after a promise has been executed, either resolved or rejected, it does not matter. 

Let's continue with the same object as before, in the previous asynchronous examples

```
const data = [
	{
		id: 1,
		title: "Iron Man",
		year: 2008,
	},
	{
		id: 2,
		title: "Spiderman Homecoming",
		year: 2017,
	},
	{
		id: 3,
		title: "Avengers : Endgame",
		year: 2019,
	},
];
```

But here we'll be doing something different. We will return the whole information of the object if there is a movie that matches a specified title, if not, then we return a message error. In order to emulate a request from a server, we will put some delay time using `setTimeout()`

```
const dataGetter = (d) => {
	return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
		setTimeout(() => {
			const result = d.find((item) => {
				return item.title === "Iron Man";
			});

			if (result) {
				resolve(result);
			} else {
				reject("No data found for that title");
			}
		}, 1500);
	});
};
```

The method `.find()` receives an arrow function as a parameter, and this function has as parameter `item`, which is a key from the object `d` thas goes as a parameter of the function `dataGetter()`. The arrow function returns true when the `item.title` matched `"Iron Man"`, otherwise, returns false. 

We then validate this in an if statement to resolve the variable `result` (which valides to true or false), otherwise, the function rejects the promise by returning a message error. All of this happens after 1.5 seconds. 

Then using `async/await` and the help of `try/catch` blocks we can execute the `dataGetter()` function. These keywords help to maintain the code more legible and readable

```
const out = async () => {
	try {
		const getResult = await dataGetter(data);
		console.log(getResult);
	} catch (error) {
		console.log(error);
	}
};

out();
```

The `try()` method can be added if we would like to execute something regardless of whether the promise was resolved or rejected, somewhat like an `else` statement

```
const out = async () => {
    try{
        const getResult = await dataGetter(data);
        console.log(getResult);
    } catch (error) {
        console.log(error);
    } finally () {
        console.log("Promise settled");
    }
};
```

This little modification will not only print the object information if the title validation is true, but also a message saying `Promise settled` . This message would be returned even if the validation was false. 