# ECMAScript 10

---

## Array flattening
This is a very common technique in other programming fields, such as data science, particularly in Machine Learning. Here we are usually interested in handling the dimensions of tensors, because that is the way we can mathematically control data. 

Flattening consist basically in transforming the dimensions of a tensor (which is a higher order array) into a single-dimension array. For example let's consider the array

```
const a = [
    [1,2,3],
    [4,5,6],
    [7,8,9]
]
```

This can be seen as a 3x3 matrix. In general we say it is a second order tensor living in $\mathbb{R}^3$ and it is denoted as $a = T_2(\mathbb{R}^3)$. The flattening of a consist in making it live in $\mathbb{R}$, and the transformation will look like $a = T_1(\mathbb{R}) = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9]$

This may look like it came out of thing, but flattening is extremely useful because it allows for working with tabular data in a more manageable way, and simplifies some matrix operations that can be very time and memory consuming. 

To flatten an array in JavaScript we use the `flat()` method. 

But arrays are more complicated than that, because they can contain any element of any datatype, meaning that an array can contain arrays and numbers for example

```
const a = [1,1,[2,3,[4,4,5,6]],4,[1,3,5,6,[1,2,4]]];
```

Now `a` has embedded arrays inside. Here we need more specification about how we want to flatten the array. `flat()` by default will take the empty argument as `1` and will flatten every subarray inside `a`

Let's consider 

$$a = [1,1,[2,3,[4,4,5,6]],4,[1,3,5,6,[1,2,4]]]$$

Notice that $a$ has a two contained subarray, which are $a_1 = [2,3,[4,4,5,6]]$ and $a_2 = [1,3,5,6,[1,2,4]]$. If we do `a.flat()` or `a.flat(1)` (they are equivalent) the output will be 

$$ a.flat() = [ 1, 1, 2, 3, [ 4, 4, 5, 6 ], 4, 1, 3, 5, 6, [ 1, 2, 4 ] ]$$

And in the background both $a_1$ and $a_2$ are the only two sub arrays that are being flatten

$$a_1 = [2,3,[4,4,5,6]] \rightarrow a_1= 2,3,[4,4,5,6]$$

$$a_2 = [1,3,5,6,[1,2,4]] \rightarrow a_1= 1,3,5,6,[1,2,4]$$

On the other hand, by doing `a.flat(2)` it will flatten the subarrays of $a_1$ and $a_2$, which are

$$a_{11} = [4,4,5,6]$$
$$a_{21} = [1,2,4]$$


And with `a.flat(2)` the output will be

$$ a.flat(2) = [ 1, 1, 2, 3,  4, 4, 5, 6 , 4, 1, 3, 5, 6,1, 2, 4 ]$$

And this logic satifies for any natural number as an argument. However, most of time time we are interested in brutally flattening the entire array, no matter how many levels of nested subarrays it contains, and maybe trying to manually count them is not the best practice. If we pass the argument `a.flat(Infinity)` it will do this exact same thing for us. 

There is also another method, which is `flatMap()` . It is a combination of `map()` and `flat()` , and it has a callback function as an input parameter, just the same as if we were using `map()`

Consider the following example

```
const obj = [
	{ pokeID: 1, pokeName: "Escavalier", types: ["Bug", "Steel"] },
	{ pokeID: 2, pokeName: "Mimikyu", types: ["Ghost", "Fairy"] },
	{ pokeID: 3, pokeName: "Hydreigon", types: ["Dragon", "Dark"] },
	{ pokeID: 4, pokeName: "Swampert", types: ["Water", "Ground"] },
];

const names = obj.map((name) => {
	return name.types;
}).flat();

```
Using the `map()` function the code will return in a single array, all the pokemon types for each pokemon in the list and since it is an array we can use `.flat()` to flatten it and reduce its dimensionality. 

All of this can be achieved simultaneously using the `flatMap()` function. But we must keep in mind that unlike `flat()` it will not accept a level of nesting deepness. 

```
const names = obj.flatMap((name) => {
    return name.types
})
```

---

## `try/catch` optional

Let's recall the structure of a `try/catch` block

```
try{

} catch(err) {
    // The 'err' parameter needs to be used

}
```

Since ES10 we can ommit the `err` argument inside `catch` 

```
try{

} catch {
    // The error can be handled without parameters

}
```

---

## Method `Object.fromEntries`
This method returns an object based from an array of arrays


```
const arrayEntries = [
  [ 'name', 'Andres' ],
  [ 'email', 'andres@correo.com' ],
  [ 'age', 23 ]
] 

const usuario = Object.fromEntries(arrayEntries)
```

This will return the following object

```
    {   name: 'Andres',
        email: 'andres@correo.com',
        age: 23
    }

```
