# ECMAScript 11


---

## Optional chaining

An object is a collection of key-value pairs, and it may be the case where one of these pairs is an object. For example


```
const pokemons = {
    pokemon1 : {
        name : "Gengar",
        types : ["Ghost","Poison"],
        stats : {
            attack : 45,
            defense : 40,
            spAttack : 87,
            spDefense : 70,
            speed : 75
        }
    },
    pokemon2 : {
        name : "Escavalier",
        types : ["Bug","Steel"],
        stats : {
            attack : 87,
            defense : 79,
            spAttack : 34,
            spDefense : 29,
            speed : 28
        }
    },
    pokemon3: {
        name : "Hydreigon",
        types : ["Dragon","Dark"],
        stats : {
            attack : 50,
            defense : 52,
            spAttack : 85,
            spDefense : 90,
            speed : 65
        }
    },

}
```

We can access to the values of every key by using dot notation. For example `pokemons.pokemon2.stats.defense` will return `79` , and `pokemons.pokemon3.types` returns `['Dragon','Dark']`

Now what if we try to retrieve some key that does not exist within the object? That will depend on how deep we are traversing it. 

If we do `pokemons.pokemon1.nature` the output is `undefined` . This is because in the `pokemons` objects there exist `pokemon1`, but inside `pokemon1` there is no such key named `nature` . The traversal was performed throughout the entire object until it reaches the last subkey of `nature` which was not defined, hence the output of `undefined`

But if we do `pokemons.pokemon4.name` this will automatically yield error, because when it starts doing the travsersing it will first see if there is a key named `pokemon4` , even though there ais the subkey of `name` . The object traversing is performed in order, and if it doesn't reach the last subkey, it will yield a `TypeError` error. 

This is quite a pain in backend development, because many times when handling user requests, we are querying a database or APIs so we can retrieve information about these, but if the responses comes in very large JSON files, there is no good way to guarantee that whatever the user requested will exist as keys in the JSON object. To solve this we use **optional chaining**, and it is as simple as just putting a question mark after the key we are not sure whether it exists within the object or not. 


```
console.log(pokemon.pokemon4?.name);
```

Now when we reached to `pokemon4` it will validate the existence of this key inside the object, if it's not, then the output is `undefined` , instead of a nasty error that can break a project. 


---

## BigInt and Nullish
`BigInt` can be usde to manipulate very large integers

```
const a = 34985712301923758856n;
const b = BigInt(34985712301923758856);
```

It is imporant to add the `n` at the end, this denotes we are declaring a big integer. However, casting the number using `BigInt()` will also work the same way.

On the other hand, the **nullish coalescing** operator, denoted by `??` is used to provide a default value for a variable if is it either `null` or `undefined`

```
const a = null;
const validation = 5;

console.log(a ?? validation);

```

As long as `a` is `null` or `undefined` the output of the console log will always be `5` , otherwise it will be the value of `a`

---
 ## More about promises
 When doing more complex asynchronous tasks, it is neccesary to deal with many promises at the same time, the method `Promise.all()` makes it easier to work with. 

Let's recap the same example as before, the one of the movies

```
const data = [
	{
		id: 1,
		title: "Iron Man",
		year: 2008,
	},
	{
		id: 2,
		title: "Spiderman Homecoming",
		year: 2017,
	},
	{
		id: 3,
		title: "Avengers : Endgame",
		year: 2019,
	},
];

const dataGetter = (d) => {
	return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
		setTimeout(() => {
			const result = d.find((item) => {
				return item.title === "Iron Man";
			});

			if (result) {
				resolve(result);
			} else {
				reject("No data found for that title");
			}
		}, 1500);
	});
};

const out = async () => {
	try {
		const getResult = await dataGetter(data);
		console.log(getResult);
	} catch (error) {
		console.log(error);
	} finally {
		console.log("Promise settled");
	}
};

out();

```

But now it will be modified again, so `dataGetter()` receives an array of titles and makes a validation for each of them. so the function will change to the following: 

```
const dataGetter = (d, titles) => {
	const promises = titles.map((title) => {
		return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
			setTimeout(() => {
				const result = d.find((item) => item.title === title);

				if (result) {
					resolve(result);
				} else {
					reject(`No data found for title: ${title}`);
				}
			}, 1500);
		});
	});

	return Promise.all(promises);
};
```

Or

```
const dataGetter = (d,titles) => {
	const promises = [];

	for (let i = 0; i < titles.length; i++) {
		const promise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
			setTimeout(() => {
				const result = d.find((item) => item.title === titles[i]);

                if(result){
                    resolve(result)
                }
                else{
                    reject(`No data found for title: ${titles[i]}`)
                }
			}, 1500);
		});
		promises.push(promise);
	}

	return Promise.all(promises);
};

```
Notice that instead of directly returning a promise, we are declaring a variables `promises` that will create an array of titles. 

The function first uses `map()` to create an array of promises that will search for each title in the `d` object (recall that `map()` can be used in arrays as well, not only for objects). For each title, a new promise that is created calls `setTimeout()` to simulate a delayed search. Overall the code works the same as before. 

We are using `Promises.all` inside the function `dataGetter()` because it needs to return a promise. What it is actually doing is to convert the array of promises given by `promises` into a single promise that resolves with an array of results from the individual promises created with `map()`

Now there is just one slight issue with `Promise.all()` . It will only be resolved if and only if every promise inside the array is resolved, otherwise it will be rejected. 

There is another method called `Promise.allSettled()` that allows to handle various promises, and it returns an array of objects with the resolution status of all the promises of the array.

```
{
    status : 'fulfilled',
    value : [Object]
}
```
```
{
    status : 'rejected',
    reason : 'Here the error message specified in the rejected block will appear'
}
```
So the usage of one or another will depend on what wants to be done. We use `.all()` when we need all the promises to be resolved *succesfully* before continuing with the application logic, or we do not care about the outcome of individual promises as long as they are succesfully resolved. 

On the other hand `.allSettled()` is often used when we need to wait for all promises to settle (resolve or reject) before continuing the application logic. Also when we want to handle the outcomes of all promises, includes the ones that were rejected, or if we do not care at all to continue operation with rejected promises. 

---

## Global objects
JavaScript is compiled in a browser engine and as soon as this happens, it creates a *global object*

A global object provides us with functions and variables that are from the enviroment in which we are currently working. This means they will differe depending if JavaScript is being executed in the browser, or in the terminal using Node. 

- In browser, they global variable is `window`
- In Node, they global variable is `global`

In ES11, they came up with a single global variable that works for both browser and Node, which is `globalthis`

## Regular expressions: `matchAll()`
This is a built in method for string objects. It returns an iterator that yields matches for a regular expression compared to a string

```
const str = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog";
const regex = /\w+/g;

const matches = str.matchAll(regex);
```

The regular expresion `\w+` matches all sequences of one or more word characters (in other terms, it matches any word string)

The variable `matches` is an iterator object, so we can apply a for loop to acces to its content. 





